How do you give it form?
Because there are many people who
have an idea, more now in this area
that has passed crisis, where people
did not find work and have developed
more entrepreneurial activity,
and there are people who
do not know how to start.
How did you start?
The easiest thing is to summarize the
story and how it arises.
I had a friend named De Jemi,
who was in the United States
studying, and seeing how Facebook
was beginning to catch some
critical mass.
It was a very small one, with between
5 and 10,000 users.
Today it has billions, you
can imagine the vision that the
uncle had at the time.
He got a call from her one day and
said, “Hey, Felix, why don’t we
put this story together, that
I think it can be very interesting
and we can make it a big deal?”
I didn’t understand it, I saw it
as a website, I didn’t even know
how we would make it profitable,
but it sounded funny and,
above all, he was a very skilled
person with very good educational
training and, above all,
then, professional.
Then I trusted him, and he introduced
me to another person who was supposed
to be the one who was going to develop
the entire technological part,
which also fell very well to me
and it seemed that we understood
each other, and we started
the project.
From there, it was all a bit
to see what pieces we needed
to build it, on the one hand, obviously,
the whole part of engineering, on
the other hand, the whole part
of marketing, on the other hand,
the whole part of financing, which
was initially the one that cost
us the most, because we were
leaving the university,
we did not have much knowledge
and we did not know how
to start.
So we looked for the way we could
finance it between ourselves
at first, obviously we had
the luck that at the time the
banks were lending us money because
our parents supported us for
it and we could raise a little
money, we raised, I think
it was 60 to 80,000
euros between the three.
I believe that you proposed to enter me
at that time in that project and it
seemed to me that I did not understand
anything about what you were talking to
me and I did not enter, and look you where.
Well, I think everyone sold
it like you, the problem
is that not even I knew where
we were going, not even knew
how to sell it, not even knew
how we would make a profit,
but it was a beautiful story,
one of our very chulas, I was
ending the career and also
had to do a career end project
for one of our professors,
so I could fit very well
with this subject project
we had.
Then, we started and obviously what
we did first was to create a business
plan in which we showed how we
were going to make money with this
project, that the truth that this
model did my friend Adeyemi and
was a very basic model, was hearing,
look if we have so many users and
generate so many pages viewed
and we sell the impression
of the ad to so much, because
according to the amount of users
and traffic we had, because
we could generate so many...
That is, it was a model based on
advertising pay.
As is.
The user would never be costly.
Very basic, at the time, we are talking
about 10-12 years ago, when the only
thing that was CPM, very classic
formats and there was also, as if
we said, there was not much trajectory
already in that sense and
the Internet was practically
being born.
So with that model, we said,
hear, let’s see if we are able
to seek funding.
The first 60,000 euros we
put them and obviously they burned
relatively quickly and once
our own money had already
ended, because we went
out to look for capital.
How are you facing?
You never raised money, more
than your friends.
In fact, our end was a bit lucky
because Adeyemi at college
had a partner in whom his father
had created a company called
NetJuice, which is
a company that they sold
to Yahoo.
And it was a long time before
we went out to the market
to find funding.
So the first thing he said to us was,
“Hey, why don’t you go and talk
to my friend’s father?”
Maybe he understands this.
And effectively, we went to talk
to his friend’s father and we
told him and at 30 minutes he
said he put a check of 300,000
euros on the table.
It was quite surprising,
but it was very easy, it
was much easier than
we thought at the time.
And then, once we had that check
on the table, one of the university
professors, from Adeyemi
too, had had a successful
case, or well, was starting
a successful case that was
Alista, who was Bernardo
Hernández.
Then, he said, I’ll contact you
with Bernardo and tell him
about the movie.
We went to tell Bernardo the project
and immediately saw it.
He also invested in us.
Then, from there, we gathered
the first 500,000 euros and
it was with them that we
continued to develop the entire project.